				Hey, xemacs it's ==>   -*-indented-text-*-

This document discusses techniques that may be used to transfer large,
binary files (QXL.WIN for example) between various systems.

The following operating systems are discussed Windows
(NT/Win9x/Win3.1), Linux and QDOS.

The following methods are discussed, TCP/IP networking, serial
connections, disk transfer.

The information in this file is primarily aimed at users who wish to
migrate data between QXL.WIN files QXL/QPC and Q40.

Supporting software
-------------------

The qxltool program is available as source code (all platforms) and
binaries for Linux, Win32, DOS and QDOS. This program will read and
(optionally) write QXL.WIN files under these operating systems. A Perl 
script is provided (qxlcopy.pl) to copy multiple files from a QXL.WIN
file into the host operating system. Due to the powerful, portable
cross-platform capabilities of Perl, the same script is available for
all qxltool supported platforms.

Compression and Disks
---------------------

When using slow devices (serial or parallel networking, direct serial
connection), then it is advisable to compress the file first. Industry 
standard compression programs are available on all platforms.

gzip	: Compresses a single file. QDOS executable, handled by WinZip 
	  or Unix gzip program.

bzip2	: Compresses a single file, much better compression than gzip, 
	  albeit slower and memory intensive. Source and binary
	  distributions for Linux, Windows and QDOS.

zip	: Compressor/archiver. InfoZip distribution for Linux, Windows 
	  and QDOS. Compatible with WinZip and pkzip on Windows. 

The zipsplit program may be used to split up Zip files to the size of
the largest file in the archive (which may or may not fit on a floppy
disk).

The QDOS 'bruz' archiver uses the industry standard 'tar' and 'gzip'
archiver and compressor to produce archives that may be split over
arbitrarily sized media (e.g. floppy disks). The archive may be
reassembled on a Linux or Windows system and the original data
retrieved (using tar/gzip or WinZip respectively).

Windows & Linux
---------------

The easiest method is to use TCP/IP networking, if the transfer is
between two Windows boxen, two Linux boxen, or a Linux and a Windows
system.

The easiest method is ethernet, network cards and a small hub are
extremely cheap and cost effective. Setting up TCP/IP networking in
both Windows and Linux is trivial. Once the hardware has been
configured, files may easily be transfered.

Between two Windows boxen, the easiest may is to enable 'network
drives' for the relevant directories and use Explorer / File Manager
to copy the files as required.

Using Linux, export the relevant file systems using NFS and either
copy (cp) the files or use a file manager.

Transfer between Linux and Windows may be easily achieved using either
FTP or 'Samba', which allows you to see Unix disks as 'network drives'
under Windows and Windows disks ('network drives') as NFS mounted
disks under Unix (using smbmount).

If you don't have or wish to invest ethernet hardware, then you can
run TCP/IP over a serial cable or a parallel cable. While this is
slower than ethernet, you still get full network functionality,
including 'network drives' and NFS exported drives. Using serial or
parallel IP (PLIP) between two Linux boxen is very simple; just start
pppd on each box. Using serial or parallel networking between two
Windows boxen is also simple; just create a 'direct connection'
network.

I've never managed to achieve PLIP between Windows and Linux (it was
more cost effective to go and buy the ethernet hardware:-), however
there is a fair amount of information about it on the internet. It is
easy to achieve serial IP networking using PPP and a null modem cable.

Create a Windows DUN (Dial Up Networking) entry on the Windows box;
use the supplied 'lappy' script on the Linux box to provide the
necessary modem responses to Windows and then start up PPP on Linux.

Windows / Linux to QDOS
-----------------------

Copying large binary files between Windows or Linux to QDOS is
somewhat more difficult because QDOS does not, sadly, support any form
of TCP/IP networking.  It is however possible to achieve painless
transfer using a variety of techniques.

If the QDOS system in question is QXL, then it is advisable to perform
the transfer from DOS or Windows, the performance of the QXL serial
port is extremely poor and cannot transfer more than 2000 char/sec
regardless of the baud rate. For example, if you wished to transfer a
QXL.WIN file (or parts thereof) from QXL/Windows to Q40, it would be
easier to either transfer the whole QXL.WIN file from Windows over a
serial cable, or to extract individual files using 'qxltool' in
Windows and transfer single files to the Q40.

If the transfer involves QDOS systems, then zmodem is good file
transfer protocol to use. It is supported in QDOS by 'QTPI', both send
and receive, and by by stand-alone programs (rz and sz), or build your
own from the QTPI/xpr source code archives.

QTPI supports a scripting capability that enables users to write their
own bespoke file transfer facility.

Zmodem is supported by most (all known to the author) Windows
communications programs (HyperTerminal, Procomm and several others
those names I forget). Zmodem is available in Unix using the rz/sz
programs.



Jonathan Hudson (jrhudson@bigfoot.com)
